---
title: "GRIN:  Generative Relation and Intention Network for Multi-agent Trajectory Prediction"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/00-2021-10-neurips
date: 2021-10-01
venue: "Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS)"
citation: 'L. Li, J. Yao, T. He, <b>T Xiao</b>, W. Li, J. Yan, D. Wipf, Z. Zhang. <i>In Proceedings of the Thirty-fifth Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems</i>. <b>NeurIPS 2021</b>'
---



## Abstract
Learning the distribution of future trajectories conditioned on the past is a crucial problem for understanding multi-agent systems. This is challenging because humans make decisions based on complex social relations and personal intents, resulting in highly complex uncertainties over trajectories. To address this problem, we propose a conditional deep generative model that combines advances in graph neural networks. The prior and recognition model encodes two types of latent codes for each agent: an inter-agent latent code to represent social relations and an intra-agent latent code to represent agent intentions. The decoder is carefully devised to leverage the codes in a disentangled way to predict multi-modal future trajectory distribution. Specifically, a graph attention network built upon inter-agent latent code is used to learn continuous pair-wise relations, and an agent's motion is controlled by its latent intents and its observations of all other agents. Through experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets, we show that our model outperforms previous work in multiple performance metrics. We also show that our model generates realistic multi-modal trajectories.

## Download
[Link](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2021/hash/e3670ce0c315396e4836d7024abcf3dd-Abstract.html)
